# nutexb_swizzle
The program can automatically generate lookup tables for swizzling and deswizzling texture data based on a pair of swizzled and unswizzled image data files. For the power of two case, the lookup table can be efficiently expressed as bit patterns for the x, y, and z components of the pixel address. The bit pattern technique is based on the following [blog post](https://fgiesen.wordpress.com/2011/01/17/texture-tiling-and-swizzling/).  

The generated values for the "swizzled" input are unique for each unit of image data. For uncompressed RGBA data, unique values are generated per pixel. For compressed data, unique values are generated for each 4x4 pixel tile. The generated input values are the pixel or tile's linear address (width * y + x), but the program only assumes that all pixel or tile values are unique. The lookup table is computed by finding the new location of each input pixel or tile in the deswizzled output file.  This is handled automatically by correctly specifying the width, height, and format.

### Generating Test Data
1. Write unique values to the Nutexb. Pad the image size with `--imagesize` as needed.  
`cargo run --release -- write_addresses -w 512 -h 512 -f bc7 -o "def_mario_001_col.nutexb" --imagesize 262144` 
2. Write the unique values to a binary file. Pad the image size with `--imagesize` as needed.  
`cargo run --release -- write_addresses -w 512 -h 512 -f bc7 -o "linear.bin" --imagesize 262144`
3. Calculate the deswizzled version of `linear.bin` using an emulator or reference swizzle/deswizzle implementation. Save the resulting data to `deswizzle.bin`. The provided test data is generated by dumping the raw texture data from the base mip level using [RenderDoc](https://renderdoc.org/) and [Ryujinx](https://ryujinx.org/). The emulator deswizzles the texture data, which allows for computing a lookup table and guessing the swizzle patterns. For exporting the raw image data from RenderDoc, see [viewing a texture as a buffer](https://renderdoc.org/docs/window/texture_viewer.html#view-texture-as-buffer).
4. For power of two textures, guess the swizzle pattern based on a pair of swizzed and deswizzled input data. For non power of two textures or for textures where the swizzle patterns overlap, it's best to instead generate a lookup table using the `write_swizzle_lut` subcommand.

Calculate patterns for a single mip level.  
`cargo run --release -- calculate_swizzle -w 512 -h 512 -f bc7 --swizzled "linear.bin" --deswizzled "deswizzle.bin"`  

Specify a DDS with mipmaps for the deswizzled output. The swizzled input data should contain all mipmaps.  
`cargo run --release -- calculate_swizzle -w 512 -h 512 -f bc7 --swizzled "linear_all_mips.bin" --deswizzled "deswizzled.dds"`

Specify a DDS with mipmaps for for both inputs to match mip levels individually.  
`cargo run --release -- calculate_swizzle -w 512 -h 512 -f bc7 --swizzled "linear.dds" --deswizzled "deswizzled.dds"`
